README.md, before:

# Dadata API Client

> Data cleansing, enrichment and suggestions via [Dadata API](https://dadata.ru/api)

[![PyPI Version][pypi-image]][pypi-url]
[![Build Status][build-image]][build-url]
[![Code Coverage][coverage-image]][coverage-url]
[![Code Quality][quality-image]][quality-url]

Thin Python wrapper over Dadata API.

## Installation

```sh
pip install dadata
```

## Usage

Cleansing:

```python
>>> import os
>>> from dadata import Dadata
>>> token = os.getenv("DADATA_API_KEY")
>>> secret = os.getenv("DADATA_SECRET_KEY")
>>> dadata = Dadata(token, secret)
>>> dadata.clean("address", "мск сухонская 11 89")
{'source': 'мск сухонская 11 89', 'result': 'г Москва, ул Сухонская, д 11, кв 89', ...}
```

Suggestions and other services:

```python
>>> import os
>>> from dadata import Dadata
>>> token = os.getenv("DADATA_API_KEY")
>>> dadata = Dadata(token)
>>> dadata.geolocate(lat=55.8782557, lon=37.65372)
>>> dadata.iplocate("212.45.30.108")
>>> dadata.suggest("party", "моторика")
>>> dadata.find_by_id("party", "7719402047")
>>> dadata.find_affiliated("7736207543")
```

## Development setup

```sh
$ python3 -m venv env
$ . env/bin/activate
$ make deps
$ tox
```

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Make sure to add or update tests as appropriate.

Use [Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) for code formatting and [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.4/) for commit messages.

## [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md)

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

<!-- Markdown link & img dfn's -->

[pypi-image]: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/dadata?style=flat-square
[pypi-url]: https://pypi.org/project/dadata/
[build-image]: https://img.shields.io/travis/nalgeon/dadata-py?style=flat-square
[build-url]: https://travis-ci.org/nalgeon/dadata-py
[coverage-image]: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/nalgeon/dadata-py?style=flat-square
[coverage-url]: https://coveralls.io/github/nalgeon/dadata-py
[quality-image]: https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/maintainability/nalgeon/dadata-py?style=flat-square
[quality-url]: https://codeclimate.com/github/nalgeon/dadata-py

Commit message:

doc: remove os.getenv() from examples

README.md, after:

# Dadata API Client

> Data cleansing, enrichment and suggestions via [Dadata API](https://dadata.ru/api)

[![PyPI Version][pypi-image]][pypi-url]
[![Build Status][build-image]][build-url]
[![Code Coverage][coverage-image]][coverage-url]
[![Code Quality][quality-image]][quality-url]

Thin Python wrapper over Dadata API.

## Installation

```sh
pip install dadata
```

## Usage

Cleansing:

```python
>>> from dadata import Dadata
>>> token = "Replace with Dadata API key"
>>> secret = "Replace with Dadata secret key"
>>> dadata = Dadata(token, secret)
>>> dadata.clean("address", "мск сухонская 11 89")
{'source': 'мск сухонская 11 89', 'result': 'г Москва, ул Сухонская, д 11, кв 89', ...}
```

Suggestions and other services:

```python
>>> from dadata import Dadata
>>> token = "Replace with Dadata API key"
>>> dadata = Dadata(token)
>>> dadata.geolocate(lat=55.8782557, lon=37.65372)
>>> dadata.iplocate("212.45.30.108")
>>> dadata.suggest("party", "моторика")
>>> dadata.find_by_id("party", "7719402047")
>>> dadata.find_affiliated("7736207543")
```

## Development setup

```sh
$ python3 -m venv env
$ . env/bin/activate
$ make deps
$ tox
```

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Make sure to add or update tests as appropriate.

Use [Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) for code formatting and [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.4/) for commit messages.

## [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md)

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

<!-- Markdown link & img dfn's -->

[pypi-image]: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/dadata?style=flat-square
[pypi-url]: https://pypi.org/project/dadata/
[build-image]: https://img.shields.io/travis/nalgeon/dadata-py?style=flat-square
[build-url]: https://travis-ci.org/nalgeon/dadata-py
[coverage-image]: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/nalgeon/dadata-py?style=flat-square
[coverage-url]: https://coveralls.io/github/nalgeon/dadata-py
[quality-image]: https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/maintainability/nalgeon/dadata-py?style=flat-square
[quality-url]: https://codeclimate.com/github/nalgeon/dadata-py
